Konnect teams and roles (#3781)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/org-management/teams-roles-users.md

---
title: Manage Teams, Roles, and Users
no_version: true
---

Many organizations have strict security requirements. For example, organizations
need the ability to segregate the duties of an administrator to ensure that a
mistake or malicious act by one administrator doesn’t cause an outage.

To help secure and govern your environment, {{site.konnect_short_name}} provides

> the ability to manage authorization with teams and roles. You can use Konnect's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ability to manage authorization with teams and roles. You can use {{site.konnect_short_name}}'s
```

predefined teams for a standard set of roles, or create custom teams with
any roles you choose. Invite users and add them to these teams to manage user
access.

{:.note}
> **Note:** If Okta integration is [enabled](/konnect/org-management/okta-idp),
{{site.konnect_short_name}} users and teams become read-only. An organization
admin can view all registered users in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, but cannot
edit their team membership from the {{site.konnect_short_name}} side. To manage
automatically-created users, adjust user permissions through Okta, or
[adjust team mapping](/konnect/org-management/okta-idp/#map-teams-to-groups).

## Prerequisites

You must be part of the **Organization Admin** team to manage users, teams, and
roles.

## Manage teams and roles

You can find a list of all teams in your organization through
![](/assets/images/icons/konnect/icn-organizations.svg){:.inline .no-image-expand .konnect-icon}
**Organization** > **Teams** in Konnect.

* **Team:** A group of users with access to the same roles. Teams can be

> used to functionally separate departments or create hierarchical

Reviewer: This implies that teams can contain teams to me. Is that the case?

Author: This is not yet the case. I'll rephrase.

structure in an organization. Access to Konnect resources such as runtime groups
and services can be shared with teams. A team can be granted granular

> access based on permissions and roles.

Reviewer: Can I grant individual permissions to a team, or does it have to be part of a role?

> * **Role:** Predefined access to a particular resource type (for example,

Reviewer: Resource type, or resource instance? cc @haydenlam

Author: I can answer this one: it's a bit of both. Either a resource instance, or all instances of a resource with `*`.

  Services).

When you create a Konnect account, you are automatically added to the Organization
Admin team, which is one of the [predefined teams](/konnect/org-management/teams-reference)
in Konnect. Predefined teams have sets of roles that can't be modified or
deleted. You can add users to these teams, or create your own custom teams
with any of the [supported roles](/konnect/org-management/roles-reference).

Users can be part of any number of teams, and the roles gained from the teams

> are additive. For example, if you add a user to both the Service Developer and

Reviewer: Do we need to be explicit that if two roles provide permissions on the same entity, the one with more permissions wins?

Portal Viewer teams, the user can create and manage Services
through the Service Hub _and_ register applications through the Dev Portal.

All users can view all teams and members of each team, but they can't view the
team permissions.

### Entity and role sharing

An organization admin can share any role or entity with any user in the
organization.

Any user can also share Services or runtime groups that they have access to, with

> the same role or lesser.

Reviewer 2: Only the admin of a particular entity instance is allowed to share a role for that entity instance with others.

For example, say you have a Service Admin role:
* You can share that Service with any other user through the Service Hub.
* Since you have admin permissions, you can choose to share the Service any
level of access: creator, deployer, viewer, etc.
* The user that you share this Service with can then share the Service

> themselves.

Reviewer 2: This was de-scoped from helium.

Reviewer 2: Yes, only this part has been de-scoped.
```
The user that you share this Service with can then share the Service
themselves.
```
If UserX is ServiceA Admin, and shares ServiceA Viewer to UserY. UserY cannot share viewer with anyone else.
Only ServiceA Admins will be allowed to share any roles for ServiceA to any other user or team.

But what if you only have the Service Viewer role? In that case, you can only

> share the Service in read-only mode, as this is the lowest-level permission that

Reviewer: Should this be `as this is the highest-level permission that you have`?

Reviewer 2: Yes, Michael is right. (for when we do implement the permission-to-share permission)
In the mean time, this was de-scoped from helium so a viewer cannot share viewer with others. Only the Admin is able to.

you can have on the Service entity.

You can [share any Service](/konnect/configure/servicehub/manage-services/#share-service)
through the Service Hub, or
[share any runtime group](/konnect/configure/runtime-manager/runtime-groups/manage/#share-runtime-group)
through the Runtime Manager.

### Create a new team

1. From the left navigation menu in Konnect, open the
![](/assets/images/icons/konnect/icn-organizations.svg){:.inline .no-image-expand .konnect-icon}
 **Organization** link.
2. Click **+ New Team**.
3. Enter a team name and description. Both fields are required.
4. Click **Save**.

> By default, your new team has the `Creator` role for all entities in the organization.

Reviewer: This isn't a docs issue, but this isn't behaviour that I'd expect @haydenlam. Shouldn't we be defaulting to no permissions for a new team?

Reviewer 2: @mheap You are correct. This was likely a bug in the Helium environment when @lena-larionova was writing this.

It has been fixed now. A team is created with no roles by default. Every single role must be intentionally assigned.

Customize the roles through the team's configuration page.

### Edit roles for a team

You can edit the roles for any custom team. Any changes made to a team's roles
are automatically applied to all team members.

1. From the left navigation menu in Konnect, open the
![](/assets/images/icons/konnect/icn-organizations.svg){:.inline .no-image-expand .konnect-icon}
 **Organization** link.
2. Choose a team from the list.

    Teams with the `Predefined` label can't be edited or deleted.

3. Choose an entity tab, then click **+ Add role(s)**.

> 4. Enter the UUID of the element you want to assign, or enter `*` to target

Reviewer: How do I get the UUID?

Reviewer 2: This is a pre-helium iteration. Soon, this will be converted into a drop-down selector.

Reviewer 2: The drop down will display a list of Services or RGs depending on what role you are adding. `*` will also be an option in the drop-down.

Author: To double-check: when we talk about service permissions, are we referring to Konnect services, gateway services, or both? Because I know how to find the UUID of a gateway service through the UI, but I don't think it's as easy to find the UUID of a Konnect service.
